hey guys I'm always happy to reply to
letters for my supporters on patreon as
I've been reflecting lately I think you
guys get a lot of entertainment for one
doll or a month especially if you're
interested in veganism be hilarious know
if anyone subscribing who's not
interested in talking about veganism I
have a letter here from guy named
Jackson Jackson rights first off thanks
for all your interesting content I'm
glad that I'm a late comer to your
channel because I get to go back through
your entire catalogue of videos so I do
have some fans who have watched every
single one of my 400 plus videos small
number of people and I think that those
people probably know me better than they
know some of their own blood relations
or some other personal friends they may
have gone to high school with or people
that they met in college that's a lot of
hours of hearing my voice if you've
watched every single video ever recorded
but I went welcome to the club Jackson
and thank you for pitching one doll or a
month so you can interact me this with
us this way on patreon so Jackson rights
i'm a 23 year old vegan living in
canberra a study philosophy political
science and anthropology i am
particularly interested in human animal
relations in an anthropological context
and an ethical context i'm interested in
vegan politics and i also have an
interesting put his philosophy we seem
to share quite a few interest so pause
there i am not an anthropologist however
i have been referred to in print as an
anthropologist that happened for the
first time when i was living in laos
some of my research interests come very
close to anthropology some my own
studies both groups of formal academia
and foreign publications definitely
overlap with anthropology anthropology
has been a significant part of my adult
life but political sciences with my
first university diploma was in
philosophies but a huge part of my life
every stage of my life Western
philosophy as well as Buddhist
philosophy I was a scholar of Buddhism
for more than 10 years and the bad news
is if we have a common interest in put
its philosophy Jackson there's
absolutely nothing worth reading in
English language my own articles
published in English are okay only a
couple of them you can read them but
those articles will try to explain to
you just how profound the problems of
language and bias are and really I
cannot recommend at all reading anything
of a Buddhist philosophy in English
because what's available in English is
garbage
end of that Gresham back to Jackson's
letter here Jackson writes one of the
cornerstones of cultural anthropology is
cultural relativism at least in theory
the contentious statement but we
continue how do you navigate
cross-cultural moral judgments about
ecology politics ethics and so on is it
possible to do so how can veganism
meaningfully penetrate other cultures
hey let's pause how can it meaningfully
penetrate any culture like what we're
going to talk about this as if it's
already penetrated the culture in
australia or england or canada boy I
think we may be at a big disadvantage in
Western culture compared to some Asian
cultures bday he says I have heard your
account of meeting vegans in Taiwan
which I found very interesting indeed I
wants a fascinating case study Israel
also is probably a fascinating case
study but I don't know that much about
Israel if veganism as we in the West
understand it can meaningfully cross
into another culture does this reveal
anything about human nature thanks for
your time I look forward to your
response Jackson end of message Thank
You Jackson is a great letter and I'm
really happy to reply to it I'm happy
anyone is supporting on patreon right in
and I'm really happy to make these
videos replying to your questions
comments controversies or what have you
um so Jackson approaches this question
in terms of cultural relativism and my
response is relatively succinct because
I do not so Jackson is a background not
only in anthropology but also in
political science so I deal with this in
a political science manner and I address
it under the heading of minimum
standards why do I use the term minimum
standards because it's much more simple
clear and concise than invoking the
complex jargon and political baggage of
the concept of human rights and or the
complex jargon and baggage of animal
rights minimum standards this could also
be expressed in terms of requirements if
a country like Saudi Arabia wants to
participate in the olympics and
international event they face a set of
requirements in Saudi Arabia women do
not have the basic freedoms that you may
take for granted your country
is wearing a bathing suit such as being
able to practice swimming in public in a
public swimming pool right this actually
becomes a problem when a country like
Saudi Arabia tries to meet the minimum
requirements to participate in the
Olympics or the Commonwealth Games or
other international games that actually
do have rules and regulations requiring
gender equality parody equal government
support for sports that are done by both
men and women now western country is
also one of the problems with these
requirements because a western country
for example may just not support women's
boxing or women's football or women's
soccer there may just be some sports
that are really unpopular in the country
where women the female athletes don't
get much support and then they run into
roadblocks or these international
foundation say no no wait we actually
have provisions and guidelines here you
have to meet certain standards of
supporting women's athleticism also
under these various settings it's not
complete parody it's not that you have
to have an exactly equal number of women
swimming and men's swimming but there
were requirements now again this is much
more precise than talking about human
rights go with human rights to swim it's
a bit abstract yes women have the right
to swim in Saudi Arabia but how they can
actually exercise that right what it
actually means this is a case of
requirements when we talk about a
minimum standard they have to meet if
they want to participate in that
international event it's very clear what
we mean it's also clear that we're not
endorsing war as a way of changing Saudi
Arabia's culture it's just a requirement
either they can isolate themselves or
they can meet those requirements and
join that forum now in economic matters
this type of requirement based reasoning
is extremely powerful if you have an
international trade dispute committee
and you can only join that committee you
could only join that international
foundation if your country meets a bunch
of requirements so this happened with
China even more recently happened with
Vietnam so Vietnam wanted to join trade
organizations international cooperation
organizations development organizations
and in order to join they had to in
effect bring about certain types of
human rights certain they had to meet
certain minimum standards right now
again no one was threatening to invade
Vietnam no one was threatening to bomb
Vietnam the United States has quite a
spectacular history of invading and
bombing Vietnam you may have heard of it
but in the last couple of decades since
the 1990s no one was considering the
option of using violent coercion to
force Vietnam to live up to those
standards but the standards exist and
you say if you want to sit at this
roundtable if you want to participate in
this international foundational
organization here are the standards you
have to meet now I mean these this this
line of reasoning which is really kind
of hard brass tacks political science
and has nothing to do with cultural
relativism we completely evaded the
issue of cultural relativism shoe raise
it's a good question but my answer I
think kills the heart of the matter
while totally evading all those problems
you could have something similar like
this the production of alcohol and
cigarettes are very tightly regulated
that way internationally where people
say look if you want to sell cigarettes
in our country if you want to be able to
import and export cigarettes if you want
to be able to sell alcohol in our
country there are a whole bunch of
requirements you have to meet for what
can and can't be used in cigarettes what
can and can't be used uncle now this may
seem like a ridiculous comparison but
it's not step by step it is definitely
true that the type of ethical concerns
vegan at vegans have can be brought to
bear on leather and milk and meat el
what's in our diet and the other
products and the exploitation of animals
the handling of animals that are bought
and sold to be tortured to death in
laboratories for medical research for
vivisection all of those issues actually
can be addressed in the sense under the
heading of minimum standards of
requirements here's what you need to do
to be able to access this market to be
able to participate in this forum or
what have you
does cultural relativism still matter
yes when I first opened my patreon I had
a number of very devout Muslim members
join my patron I don't know if they've
quit I don't know if they've quit
because I talk too much you put my sex
life or what have you I don't know I
have heard me I haven't heard from
members and well but they were serious
believing Muslims who were trying to
promote veganism within the Muslim world
within North Africa are the ones that I
remember more you know Muslim north
africa the challenge of approaching and
explaining and expressing veganism as a
movement as a moral landed as paradigm
in a Muslim context is much much more
challenging than pursuing and expressing
it here in China I currently live in
kunming china or in Thailand or in Sri
Lanka in Sri Lanka had a blog entry
about this there was a Buddhist monk who
actually committed suicide in
spectacular fashion because he was
really the only monk at that time trying
to lead a political movement in Sri
Lanka against the slaughtering of cows
and other large mammals now you know sir
I've obviously if your many vegans who
object the speciesism they'll say why or
are you just trying to object to cows
and not dogs whatever but all right
let's leave that aside here he lit
himself on fire and burned himself to
death as I recall and maybe mr. Murray
but he committed suicide publicly I
guess giving up on the fact that he was
in this devoutly Buddhist country
majority Buddhist country Sri Lanka but
nobody cared and everyone in that
Buddhist country was living with the
hypocrisy of being a member of a
religion that um says you shouldn't hurt
a fly you shouldn't kill mice you
shouldn't you know I mean you should you
should fit minimize violence or sandals
all kind of yet everyone around you one
way or another is buying meat and yes
you meet some Buddhists who buy chicken
but won't buy cow or who buy fish but
won't buy pork butt veganism is almost
non-existent in tera vaada countries
it's a new idea it's not in a
traditional part and tera vaada bosoms
been
incredibly weak in support for even just
vegetarianism so you know I sympathize
however as desperate and hopeless as
that may sound a Buddhist monk
committing suicide for the the concept
of veganism or concept of caring about
cows being slaughtered in a Muslim
cultural context can we even imagine a
parallel you know the struggle so far
off and the basic understanding the
concept is still far removed I think
that many of these Asian cultures that
have a history connected to Buddhism and
Taoism have many advantages over the
Western world and on the other hand
there are disadvantages the one I really
feel most keenly here in China is access
to the type of information that vegan
gains features all the time vegan gains
is all the time promoting information
about health science and he's able to
very rapidly get on the internet look at
a bunch of articles and come to
conclusions about cancer and heart
attacks and your health and outs going
to be is veganism the English line which
is very very powerful for accessing that
kind of health information and putting
together a cogent argument if your first
language is thi if your first language
is sin alize if your first language is
burmese very very hard to get up that
ledge so but again this is not a issue
of cultural relativism I'm just saying
they have some advantages in these
cultures in terms of just having the
concept that killing animals matters I
think they have advantages in terms of
conceptualizing ecology responsibility
for the state of the world says I think
there are many advantages but in terms
of the progress of science and the way
science may or may not be able to
dynamically contribute to our own
nascent movement here in veganism
they're at a disadvantage and large part
they are dependent on English
translation and that's true when you
meet scientist from Germany they'll all
tell you right away that even if you're
laying your first language is German you
rely on english language publications
german is also very you know affluent
language and as its own publication so
it's this is not unique to asia
so that's my answer your question
Jackson I do appreciate cultural
anthropology it's been a significant
part of my adult life as well as of
course political science and philosophy
however I actually approach these issues
with a totally different attitude
instead of considerations that I phrase
in terms of minimum standards and
requirements and I do not end us in this
way I eschew this problem of cultural
relativism